README.md, before:

EasyRdf
=======
EasyRdf is a PHP library designed to make it easy to consume and produce RDF.
It was designed for use in mixed teams of experienced and inexperienced RDF
developers. It is written in Object Oriented PHP and has been tested
extensively using PHPUnit.

After parsing EasyRdf builds up a graph of PHP objects that can then be walked
around to get the data to be placed on the page. Dump methods are available to
inspect what data is available during development.

Data is typically loaded into a [EasyRdf_Graph] object from source RDF
documents, loaded from the web via HTTP. The [EasyRdf_GraphStore] class
simplifies loading and saving data to a SPARQL 1.1 Graph Store.

SPARQL queries can be made over HTTP to a Triplestore using the
[EasyRdf_SparqlClient] class. SELECT and ASK queries will return an
[EasyRdf_SparqlResult] object and CONSTRUCT and DESCRIBE queries will return
an [EasyRdf_Graph] object.

### Example ###

    $foaf = new EasyRdf_Graph("http://www.aelius.com/njh/foaf.rdf");
    $foaf->load();
    $me = $foaf->primaryTopic();
    echo "My name is: ".$me->get('foaf:name')."\n";


Downloads
---------

The latest version of EasyRdf can be downloaded from GitHub.

Links
-----

* [EasyRdf Homepage](http://www.aelius.com/njh/easyrdf/)
* [API documentation](http://www.aelius.com/njh/easyrdf/docs/)
* [Change Log](http://github.com/njh/easyrdf/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)
* Source Code: <http://github.com/njh/easyrdf>
* Issue Tracker: <http://github.com/njh/easyrdf/issues>

Requirements
------------

* PHP 5.2.1


Features
--------

* API documentation written in phpdoc
* Unit tests written using phpunit
* Choice of RDF parser:
  * Built-in: RDF/JSON, N-Triples, RDF/XML
  * [ARC2]: RDF/XML, Turtle, RSS, microformats, eRDF, RDFa, ...
  * [Redland Bindings]: RDF/XML, N-Triples, Turtle, TriG, RSS Tag Soup, ...
  * [rapper]: RDF/XML, N-Triples, Turtle, TriG, RSS Tag Soup, ...
* Choice of RDF serialiser:
  * Built-in: RDF/JSON, N-Triples, RDF/XML, Turtle
  * [ARC2]: RDF/JSON, RDF/XML, N-Triples, Turtle, POSHRDF
  * [rapper]: RDF/JSON, N-Triples, RDF/XML, Turtle, RSS, Atom, Dot, ...
* Optional support for [Zend_Http_Client]
* No required external dependancies upon other libraries (PEAR, Zend, etc...)
* Complies with Zend Framework coding style.
* Type mapper - resources of type foaf:Person can be mapped into PHP object of class Foaf_Person
* Comes with a number of examples


More Examples
-------------

* [artistinfo.php](https://github.com/njh/easyrdf/blob/master/examples/artistinfo.php#slider) - Example of mapping an RDF type to a PHP Class
* [basic.php](https://github.com/njh/easyrdf/blob/master/examples/basic.php#slider) - Basic "Hello World" type example
* [basic_sparql.php](https://github.com/njh/easyrdf/blob/master/examples/basic_sparql.php#slider) - Basic example of making a SPARQL SELECT query
* [converter.php](https://github.com/njh/easyrdf/blob/master/examples/converter.php#slider) - Convert RDF from one format to another
* [dump.php](https://github.com/njh/easyrdf/blob/master/examples/dump.php#slider) - Display the contents of a graph
* [foafinfo.php](https://github.com/njh/easyrdf/blob/master/examples/foafinfo.php#slider) - Display the information in a FOAF file
* [foafmaker.php](https://github.com/njh/easyrdf/blob/master/examples/foafmaker.php#slider) - Construct a FOAF document with a choice of serialisations
* [graph_direct.php](https://github.com/njh/easyrdf/blob/master/examples/graph_direct.php#slider) - Example of using EasyRdf_Graph directly without EasyRdf_Resource
* [graphstore.php](https://github.com/njh/easyrdf/blob/master/examples/graphstore.php#slider) - Store and retrieve data from a SPARQL Graph Store
* [httpget.php](https://github.com/njh/easyrdf/blob/master/examples/httpget.php#slider) - No RDF, just test EasyRdf_Http_Client
* [review_extract.php](https://github.com/njh/easyrdf/blob/master/examples/review_extract.php#slider) - Extract a review from a page containing Google Review RDFa
* [serialise.php](https://github.com/njh/easyrdf/blob/master/examples/serialise.php#slider) - Basic serialisation example
* [sparql_queryform.php](https://github.com/njh/easyrdf/blob/master/examples/sparql_queryform.php#slider) - Form to submit SPARQL queries and display the result
* [uk_postcode.php](https://github.com/njh/easyrdf/blob/master/examples/uk_postcode.php#slider) - Example of resolving UK postcodes using uk-postcodes.com
* [zend_framework.php](https://github.com/njh/easyrdf/blob/master/examples/zend_framework.php#slider) - Example of using Zend_Http_Client and Zend_Loader_Autoloader with EasyRdf


[EasyRdf_Graph]:http://www.aelius.com/njh/easyrdf/docs/EasyRdf/EasyRdf_Graph.html
[EasyRdf_GraphStore]:http://www.aelius.com/njh/easyrdf/docs/EasyRdf/EasyRdf_GraphStore.html
[EasyRdf_SparqlClient]:http://www.aelius.com/njh/easyrdf/docs/EasyRdf/EasyRdf_SparqlClient.html
[EasyRdf_SparqlResult]:http://www.aelius.com/njh/easyrdf/docs/EasyRdf/EasyRdf_SparqlResult.html

[ARC2]:http://github.com/semsol/arc2/
[Redland Bindings]:http://librdf.org/bindings/
[rapper]:http://librdf.org/raptor/rapper.html
[Zend_Http_Client]:http://framework.zend.com/manual/en/zend.http.client.html

Commit message:

Added Licensing section to the README

README.md, after:

EasyRdf
=======
EasyRdf is a PHP library designed to make it easy to consume and produce RDF.
It was designed for use in mixed teams of experienced and inexperienced RDF
developers. It is written in Object Oriented PHP and has been tested
extensively using PHPUnit.

After parsing EasyRdf builds up a graph of PHP objects that can then be walked
around to get the data to be placed on the page. Dump methods are available to
inspect what data is available during development.

Data is typically loaded into a [EasyRdf_Graph] object from source RDF
documents, loaded from the web via HTTP. The [EasyRdf_GraphStore] class
simplifies loading and saving data to a SPARQL 1.1 Graph Store.

SPARQL queries can be made over HTTP to a Triplestore using the
[EasyRdf_SparqlClient] class. SELECT and ASK queries will return an
[EasyRdf_SparqlResult] object and CONSTRUCT and DESCRIBE queries will return
an [EasyRdf_Graph] object.

### Example ###

    $foaf = new EasyRdf_Graph("http://www.aelius.com/njh/foaf.rdf");
    $foaf->load();
    $me = $foaf->primaryTopic();
    echo "My name is: ".$me->get('foaf:name')."\n";


Downloads
---------

The latest version of EasyRdf can be downloaded from GitHub.


Links
-----

* [EasyRdf Homepage](http://www.aelius.com/njh/easyrdf/)
* [API documentation](http://www.aelius.com/njh/easyrdf/docs/)
* [Change Log](http://github.com/njh/easyrdf/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)
* Source Code: <http://github.com/njh/easyrdf>
* Issue Tracker: <http://github.com/njh/easyrdf/issues>

Requirements
------------

* PHP 5.2.1


Features
--------

* API documentation written in phpdoc
* Unit tests written using phpunit
* Choice of RDF parser:
  * Built-in: RDF/JSON, N-Triples, RDF/XML
  * [ARC2]: RDF/XML, Turtle, RSS, microformats, eRDF, RDFa, ...
  * [Redland Bindings]: RDF/XML, N-Triples, Turtle, TriG, RSS Tag Soup, ...
  * [rapper]: RDF/XML, N-Triples, Turtle, TriG, RSS Tag Soup, ...
* Choice of RDF serialiser:
  * Built-in: RDF/JSON, N-Triples, RDF/XML, Turtle
  * [ARC2]: RDF/JSON, RDF/XML, N-Triples, Turtle, POSHRDF
  * [rapper]: RDF/JSON, N-Triples, RDF/XML, Turtle, RSS, Atom, Dot, ...
* Optional support for [Zend_Http_Client]
* No required external dependancies upon other libraries (PEAR, Zend, etc...)
* Complies with Zend Framework coding style.
* Type mapper - resources of type foaf:Person can be mapped into PHP object of class Foaf_Person
* Comes with a number of examples


Licensing
---------

The EasyRdf library and tests are licensed under a [BSD-3-Clause] license.
The examples are in the public domain, for more information see [UNLICENSE].


More Examples
-------------

* [artistinfo.php](https://github.com/njh/easyrdf/blob/master/examples/artistinfo.php#slider) - Example of mapping an RDF type to a PHP Class
* [basic.php](https://github.com/njh/easyrdf/blob/master/examples/basic.php#slider) - Basic "Hello World" type example
* [basic_sparql.php](https://github.com/njh/easyrdf/blob/master/examples/basic_sparql.php#slider) - Basic example of making a SPARQL SELECT query
* [converter.php](https://github.com/njh/easyrdf/blob/master/examples/converter.php#slider) - Convert RDF from one format to another
* [dump.php](https://github.com/njh/easyrdf/blob/master/examples/dump.php#slider) - Display the contents of a graph
* [foafinfo.php](https://github.com/njh/easyrdf/blob/master/examples/foafinfo.php#slider) - Display the information in a FOAF file
* [foafmaker.php](https://github.com/njh/easyrdf/blob/master/examples/foafmaker.php#slider) - Construct a FOAF document with a choice of serialisations
* [graph_direct.php](https://github.com/njh/easyrdf/blob/master/examples/graph_direct.php#slider) - Example of using EasyRdf_Graph directly without EasyRdf_Resource
* [graphstore.php](https://github.com/njh/easyrdf/blob/master/examples/graphstore.php#slider) - Store and retrieve data from a SPARQL Graph Store
* [httpget.php](https://github.com/njh/easyrdf/blob/master/examples/httpget.php#slider) - No RDF, just test EasyRdf_Http_Client
* [review_extract.php](https://github.com/njh/easyrdf/blob/master/examples/review_extract.php#slider) - Extract a review from a page containing Google Review RDFa
* [serialise.php](https://github.com/njh/easyrdf/blob/master/examples/serialise.php#slider) - Basic serialisation example
* [sparql_queryform.php](https://github.com/njh/easyrdf/blob/master/examples/sparql_queryform.php#slider) - Form to submit SPARQL queries and display the result
* [uk_postcode.php](https://github.com/njh/easyrdf/blob/master/examples/uk_postcode.php#slider) - Example of resolving UK postcodes using uk-postcodes.com
* [zend_framework.php](https://github.com/njh/easyrdf/blob/master/examples/zend_framework.php#slider) - Example of using Zend_Http_Client and Zend_Loader_Autoloader with EasyRdf


[EasyRdf_Graph]:http://www.aelius.com/njh/easyrdf/docs/EasyRdf/EasyRdf_Graph.html
[EasyRdf_GraphStore]:http://www.aelius.com/njh/easyrdf/docs/EasyRdf/EasyRdf_GraphStore.html
[EasyRdf_SparqlClient]:http://www.aelius.com/njh/easyrdf/docs/EasyRdf/EasyRdf_SparqlClient.html
[EasyRdf_SparqlResult]:http://www.aelius.com/njh/easyrdf/docs/EasyRdf/EasyRdf_SparqlResult.html

[ARC2]:http://github.com/semsol/arc2/
[BSD-3-Clause]:http://www.opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause
[Redland Bindings]:http://librdf.org/bindings/
[rapper]:http://librdf.org/raptor/rapper.html
[UNLICENSE]:http://unlicense.org/
[Zend_Http_Client]:http://framework.zend.com/manual/en/zend.http.client.html
