docs/91-rdf-formats-json.md, before:

RDF/JSON Specification
======================

[JSON] (the serialisation of data in JavaScript Object Notation) is an increasingly popular data format, largely
because it is easy to parse (or, in the case of JavaScript, simply evaluate) into a data structure of the consumer's
programming language of choice.

This is a specification for a resource-centric serialisation of RDF in JSON. It aims to serialise RDF in a structure
that is easy for developers to work with.

## Syntax Specification

RDF/JSON represents a set of RDF triples as a series of nested data structures. Each unique subject in the set of
triples is represented as a key in JSON object (also known as associative array, dictionary or hash table). The value
of each key is a object whose keys are the URIs of the properties associated with each subject. The value of each
property key is an array of objects representing the value of each property.

Blank node subjects are named using a string conforming to [blank nodes in Turtle]. For example: `_:A1`.

In general, a triple (subject **S**, predicate **P**, object **O**) is encoded in the following structure:

    { "S" : { "P" : [ O ] } }

The object of the triple **O** is a further object with the following keys:

 - **type** one of 'uri', 'literal' or 'bnode' (**required** and must be lowercase)
 - **value** the lexical value of the object (**required**, full URIs should be used, not qnames)
 - **lang** the language of a literal value (**optional** but if supplied it must not be empty)
 - **datatype** the datatype URI of the literal value (**optional**)

The `lang` and `datatype` keys should only be used if the value of the `type` key is "literal".

For example, the following triple:

    <http://example.org/about> <http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title> "Anna's Homepage" .

Here is an example of the RDF/JSON specification in the format of a [JSON Schema]:

```json
{
  "version": "0.3.0",
  "id": "RDF-JSON",
  "description": "RDF/JSON definition",
  "type": "object",
  "properties": {},
  "additionalProperties": {
    "type": "object",
    "description": "subject (root object)",
    "optional": "true",
    "properties": {},
    "additionalProperties": {
      "type": "array",
      "description": "predicate (subject object)",
      "optional": "true",
      "items": {
        "type": "object",
        "description": "object (value array)",
        "properties": {
          "description": "content (value object)",
          "type": {
            "type": "string",
            "enum": ["uri", "bnode", "literal"]
          },
          "value": {
            "type": "string"
          },
          "lang": {
            "optional": true,
            "description": "See ftp://ftp.isi.edu/in-notes/bcp/bcp47.txt",
            "type": "string"
          },
          "datatype": {
            "optional": true,
            "format": "uri",
            "type": "string"
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Examples

The following RDF/XML:

```xml
<rdf:RDF xmlns:rdf="http://www.w3.org/1999/02/22-rdf-syntax-ns#"
  xmlns:foaf="http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/"
  xmlns:dc="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/">
  <rdf:Description rdf:about="http://example.org/about">
    <dc:creator>Anna Wilder</dc:creator>
    <dc:title xml:lang="en">Anna's Homepage</dc:title>
    <foaf:maker rdf:nodeID="person" />
  </rdf:Description>
  <rdf:Description rdf:nodeID="person">
    <foaf:homepage rdf:resource="http://example.org/about" />
    <foaf:made rdf:resource="http://example.org/about" />
    <foaf:name>Anna Wilder</foaf:name>
    <foaf:firstName>Anna</foaf:firstName>
    <foaf:surname>Wilder</foaf:surname>
    <foaf:depiction rdf:resource="http://example.org/pic.jpg" />
    <foaf:nick>wildling</foaf:nick>
    <foaf:nick>wilda</foaf:nick>
    <foaf:mbox_sha1sum>69e31bbcf58d432950127593e292a55975bc66fd</foaf:mbox_sha1sum>
  </rdf:Description>
</rdf:RDF>
```

Can be represented as the following RDF/JSON structure:

```json
{
  "http://example.org/about" : {
    "http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/creator" : [ { "value" : "Anna Wilder", "type" : "literal" } ],
    "http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title"   : [ { "value" : "Anna's Homepage", "type" : "literal", "lang" : "en" } ],
    "http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/maker"         : [ { "value" : "_:person", "type" : "bnode" } ]
  },

  "_:person" : {
    "http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/homepage"    : [ { "value" : "http://example.org/about", "type" : "uri" } ],
    "http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/made"        : [ { "value" : "http://example.org/about", "type" : "uri" } ],
    "http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/name"        : [ { "value" : "Anna Wilder", "type" : "literal" } ],
    "http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/firstName"   : [ { "value" : "Anna", "type" : "literal" } ],
    "http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/surname"     : [ { "value" : "Wilder", "type" : "literal" } ],
    "http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/depiction"   : [ { "value" : "http://example.org/pic.jpg", "type" : "uri" } ],
    "http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/nick"        : [
                                                { "type" : "literal", "value" : "wildling" },
                                                { "type" : "literal", "value" : "wilda" }
                                              ],
    "http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/mbox_sha1sum"  : [ {  "value" : "69e31bbcf58d432950127593e292a55975bc66fd", "type" : "literal" } ]
  }
}
```

### Serialisation Algorithm

Refer to [JSON] for definitions of terminology.

1. Start a JSON object (called the root object)
2. Group all the triples by subject
3. For each subject:
    1. Create a JSON object for the subject (called the subject object)
    2. Group all triples having the current subject by predicate
    3. For each predicate:
        1. Create a JSON array (called the value array)
        2. Select all triples having the current subject and current predicate
        3. For each value:
              1. Create a JSON object (called the value object)
              2. Add a key/value pair to the value object with the key being the string `value` and the value being the
                 lexical value of the triple value
              3. Add a key/value pair to the value object with the key being the string `type` and the value being one
                 of `literal`, `uri` or `bnode` depending on the type of the triple's value
              4. If the triple's value is a plain literal and has a language then add a key/value pair to the value
                 object with the key being the string `lang` and the value being the language token
              5. If the triple's value is a typed literal then add a key/value pair to the value object with the key
                 being the string `datatype` and value being the URI of the datatype
              6. Push the value object onto the end of the value array
       4. Add a key/value pair to the subject object with the key being the predicate URI and the value being the value
          array
4. Add a key/value pair to the root object with the key being the URI or blank node identifier of the subject and the
   value being the subject object created in the previous step

## Publishing RDF/JSON on the web

If doing content-negotiation, respond to, and send the content-type as `application/json`. An empty graph (ie: no triples)
should be served as an empty object: `{}`.


### References

This document was originally retrieved from `http://n2.talis.com/wiki/RDF_JSON_Specification`.

1. [Tags for the Identification of Languages](http://web.archive.org/web/20100801085122/http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3066.txt)
2. [RDF/JSON Brainstorming](http://web.archive.org/web/20100801085122/http://n2.talis.com/wiki/RDF_JSON_Brainstorming)
3. [Uniform Resource Identifier (URI): Generic Syntax](http://web.archive.org/web/20100801085122/http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3986.txt)
4. [RDF/JSON schema](https://web.archive.org/web/20110827125353/http://soapjr.org/schemas/RDF_JSON)


[JSON]: http://json.org/
[JSON Schema]: http://json-schema.org/
[blank nodes in Turtle]: https://www.w3.org/TR/turtle/#BNodes

Commit message:

Removed the 'RDF Format Specifcations' index page and put history/license into individual documents I think it is better to have the specifications self-contained

docs/91-rdf-formats-json.md, after:

RDF/JSON Specification
======================

[JSON] (the serialisation of data in JavaScript Object Notation) is an increasingly popular data format, largely
because it is easy to parse (or, in the case of JavaScript, simply evaluate) into a data structure of the consumer's
programming language of choice.

This is a specification for a resource-centric serialisation of RDF in JSON. It aims to serialise RDF in a structure
that is easy for developers to work with.

## Syntax Specification

RDF/JSON represents a set of RDF triples as a series of nested data structures. Each unique subject in the set of
triples is represented as a key in JSON object (also known as associative array, dictionary or hash table). The value
of each key is a object whose keys are the URIs of the properties associated with each subject. The value of each
property key is an array of objects representing the value of each property.

Blank node subjects are named using a string conforming to [blank nodes in Turtle]. For example: `_:A1`.

In general, a triple (subject **S**, predicate **P**, object **O**) is encoded in the following structure:

    { "S" : { "P" : [ O ] } }

The object of the triple **O** is a further object with the following keys:

 - **type** one of `uri`, `literal` or `bnode` (**required** and must be lowercase)
 - **value** the lexical value of the object (**required**, full URIs should be used, not qnames)
 - **lang** the language of a literal value (**optional** but if supplied it must not be empty)
 - **datatype** the datatype URI of the literal value (**optional**)

The `lang` and `datatype` keys should only be used if the value of the `type` key is "literal".

For example, the following triple:

    <http://example.org/about> <http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title> "Anna's Homepage" .

Here is an example of the RDF/JSON specification in the format of a [JSON Schema]:

```json
{
  "version": "0.3.0",
  "id": "RDF-JSON",
  "description": "RDF/JSON definition",
  "type": "object",
  "properties": {},
  "additionalProperties": {
    "type": "object",
    "description": "subject (root object)",
    "optional": "true",
    "properties": {},
    "additionalProperties": {
      "type": "array",
      "description": "predicate (subject object)",
      "optional": "true",
      "items": {
        "type": "object",
        "description": "object (value array)",
        "properties": {
          "description": "content (value object)",
          "type": {
            "type": "string",
            "enum": ["uri", "bnode", "literal"]
          },
          "value": {
            "type": "string"
          },
          "lang": {
            "optional": true,
            "description": "See ftp://ftp.isi.edu/in-notes/bcp/bcp47.txt",
            "type": "string"
          },
          "datatype": {
            "optional": true,
            "format": "uri",
            "type": "string"
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Examples

The following RDF/XML:

```xml
<rdf:RDF xmlns:rdf="http://www.w3.org/1999/02/22-rdf-syntax-ns#"
  xmlns:foaf="http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/"
  xmlns:dc="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/">
  <rdf:Description rdf:about="http://example.org/about">
    <dc:creator>Anna Wilder</dc:creator>
    <dc:title xml:lang="en">Anna's Homepage</dc:title>
    <foaf:maker rdf:nodeID="person" />
  </rdf:Description>
  <rdf:Description rdf:nodeID="person">
    <foaf:homepage rdf:resource="http://example.org/about" />
    <foaf:made rdf:resource="http://example.org/about" />
    <foaf:name>Anna Wilder</foaf:name>
    <foaf:firstName>Anna</foaf:firstName>
    <foaf:surname>Wilder</foaf:surname>
    <foaf:depiction rdf:resource="http://example.org/pic.jpg" />
    <foaf:nick>wildling</foaf:nick>
    <foaf:nick>wilda</foaf:nick>
    <foaf:mbox_sha1sum>69e31bbcf58d432950127593e292a55975bc66fd</foaf:mbox_sha1sum>
  </rdf:Description>
</rdf:RDF>
```

Can be represented as the following RDF/JSON structure:

```json
{
  "http://example.org/about" : {
    "http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/creator" : [ { "value" : "Anna Wilder", "type" : "literal" } ],
    "http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title"   : [ { "value" : "Anna's Homepage", "type" : "literal", "lang" : "en" } ],
    "http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/maker"         : [ { "value" : "_:person", "type" : "bnode" } ]
  },

  "_:person" : {
    "http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/homepage"    : [ { "value" : "http://example.org/about", "type" : "uri" } ],
    "http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/made"        : [ { "value" : "http://example.org/about", "type" : "uri" } ],
    "http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/name"        : [ { "value" : "Anna Wilder", "type" : "literal" } ],
    "http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/firstName"   : [ { "value" : "Anna", "type" : "literal" } ],
    "http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/surname"     : [ { "value" : "Wilder", "type" : "literal" } ],
    "http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/depiction"   : [ { "value" : "http://example.org/pic.jpg", "type" : "uri" } ],
    "http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/nick"        : [
                                                { "type" : "literal", "value" : "wildling" },
                                                { "type" : "literal", "value" : "wilda" }
                                              ],
    "http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/mbox_sha1sum"  : [ {  "value" : "69e31bbcf58d432950127593e292a55975bc66fd", "type" : "literal" } ]
  }
}
```

### Serialisation Algorithm

Refer to [JSON] for definitions of terminology.

1. Start a JSON object (called the root object)
2. Group all the triples by subject
3. For each subject:
    1. Create a JSON object for the subject (called the subject object)
    2. Group all triples having the current subject by predicate
    3. For each predicate:
        1. Create a JSON array (called the value array)
        2. Select all triples having the current subject and current predicate
        3. For each value:
              1. Create a JSON object (called the value object)
              2. Add a key/value pair to the value object with the key being the string `value` and the value being the
                 lexical value of the triple value
              3. Add a key/value pair to the value object with the key being the string `type` and the value being one
                 of `literal`, `uri` or `bnode` depending on the type of the triple's value
              4. If the triple's value is a plain literal and has a language then add a key/value pair to the value
                 object with the key being the string `lang` and the value being the language token
              5. If the triple's value is a typed literal then add a key/value pair to the value object with the key
                 being the string `datatype` and value being the URI of the datatype
              6. Push the value object onto the end of the value array
       4. Add a key/value pair to the subject object with the key being the predicate URI and the value being the value
          array
4. Add a key/value pair to the root object with the key being the URI or blank node identifier of the subject and the
   value being the subject object created in the previous step

### Publishing RDF/JSON on the web

If doing content-negotiation, respond to, and send the content-type as `application/json`. An empty graph (ie: no triples)
should be served as an empty object: `{}`.


## References

1. [Tags for the Identification of Languages](http://web.archive.org/web/20100801085122/http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3066.txt)
2. [RDF/JSON Brainstorming](http://web.archive.org/web/20100801085122/http://n2.talis.com/wiki/RDF_JSON_Brainstorming)
3. [Uniform Resource Identifier (URI): Generic Syntax](http://web.archive.org/web/20100801085122/http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3986.txt)
4. [RDF/JSON schema](https://web.archive.org/web/20110827125353/http://soapjr.org/schemas/RDF_JSON)


## History

The RDF/JSON Specification was written/edited 2007, 2008 by Keith Alexander, Danny Ayers, Sam Tunnicliffe, Fellahst, Ian
Davis and Robman; originally published at `http://n2.talis.com/wiki/RDF_JSON_Specification`, which is no-longer available.

The content of this specification has been taken from the following locations:

- [archive.org N2 Wiki RDF_JSON_Specification](http://web.archive.org/web/20100801085122/http://n2.talis.com/wiki/RDF_JSON_Specification)
- [archive.org N2 Wiki RDF_JSON_Specification History 1](http://web.archive.org/web/20080503095136/http://n2.talis.com/mediawiki/index.php?title=RDF_JSON_Specification&action=history)
- [archive.org N2 Wiki RDF_JSON_Specification History 2](http://web.archive.org/web/20090930113957/http://n2.talis.com/mediawiki/index.php?title=RDF_JSON_Specification&action=history)

The last edit of the `RDF_JSON` wiki page was to take in updates from an `RDF_JSON` 0.3.0 schema edited by Toby Inkster.

This specification is a work of its own right and is licensed under [Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported (CC-BY-SA-3.0)](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/).


[JSON]: http://json.org/
[JSON Schema]: http://json-schema.org/
[blank nodes in Turtle]: https://www.w3.org/TR/turtle/#BNodes
